# 7.3. Closures as parameters

So far, we rewrote the functions as closures. So why write a closure when we can just define a function? Well, the beauty of closures is we can pass closures as parameters to a function. And iOS UIKit and SwiftUI libraries use it extensively.

Let's define two closures, one to fly and another to drive.

```swift
let drive = {
    print("I am driving!")
}

let fly = {
    print("I am taking a flight!")
}
```

Now let's recreate a previous scenario where the user could travel from one place to another. So we can write the function as:

```swift
//taking a closure as the parameter 'how'
func travel(from source:String, to destination:String, how: ()->Void){
    
    print("I need to travel from \(source) to \(destination).")
    how()
}
```

In function `travel`, we are accepting a closure (`how`) as the parameter. Notice that we are defining the data type of the parameter '`how`' as `()->Void`.

`()->Void` represents a closure data type where:

* `()` means the closure won't accept any parameters, and
* `-> Void` means the closure will return "nothing". `Void` means "nothing" in Swift.

Does the parameter data type for the closure (labeled as `how`) match with the definitions of the three closures we wrote before?

Now, let's call the travel function:

```swift
//calling the function
travel(from: "San Francisco", to: "Boston", how: fly)
```

It will print:

```
I need to travel from San Francisco to Boston.
I am taking a flight!
```

See, we are calling the closure we received as the parameter `how` from inside the function.

### When closures accept parameters themselves and return values

Let's define three closures to do addition, subtraction, and multiplication:

```swift
//defining three closures to add, subtract, and multiply two numbers
let add = {(num1:Int, num2:Int) -> Int in
    return num1+num2
}

let subtract = {(num1:Int, num2:Int) -> Int in
    return num1-num2
}

let multiply = {(num1:Int, num2:Int) -> Int in
    return num1*num2
}
```

Now, we will write a function `calculate` to do some operations on two integers and return the result:

```swift
// calculate function...
func calculate(operation: (_:Int, _:Int)-> Int, num1:Int, num2:Int) -> Int{
    
    let result = operation(num1, num2)
    
    return result
}
```

So, here we are accepting a closure and labeling it as `operation`. The `operation` closure can take two `Int` parameters and returns an `Int`.

* `(_:Int, _:Int)-> Int` is a closure data type.
* `(_:Int, _:Int)` means that the closure itself accepts two `Int` parameters. We do not need the labels for the `Int`s since the labels are not important when we call closures.
* `-> Int` means that the closure will return an `Int`.

Then the function `calculate` takes two more `Int` parameters `num1` and `num2` and finally returns an `Int`. We can call the function `calculate` as follows:

```swift
//calling function to multiply...
print(calculate(operation: multiply, num1: 2, num2: 23))
```

Which prints:

```
46
```

So far, we have covered the basics of closures. You need to get used to the closures. I would practice writing closures as much as I could, probably just starting with writing closures deliberately for every simple function. iOS libraries use it very extensively, so again, you need to understand the idea.
