# 2.1. Arrays

An array is a _**data structure**_ that can store a collection of values of the same data type. An array is an ordered data structure, which means the elements are stored in a specific order, and an element stays at the same position/index until changed.

In Swift, we create arrays with `[DataType]`.

For example, the following code creates an empty array of strings that holds the name of car brands:

```swift
var carMakes = [String]()
```

Or, we can initialize an array with predefined values using an array literal, which is a list of values enclosed in square brackets. For example, the following code creates an array of strings to hold two initial car manufacturers, Toyota and Honda:

```swift
var carMakesSecond = ["Toyota", "Honda"]
```

Please note, in the above example, Swift automatically defines the variable type of `carMakesSecond` to an array of strings.

### **Adding a new element to an existing array:**

To add a new element in an array, we use `append()` function. For example, to add a new car brand in the carMakes array, we can write the following:

```swift
carMakes.append("Mazda")

// Print the current elements of the array...
print(carMakes)
```

If you run the code, it will print the following outputs:

```
["Mazda"]
```

Let's add a couple more brands:

```swift
carMakes.append("Toyota")
carMakes.append("Honda")

// Print the current elements of the array...
print("After appending: \(carMakes)")
```

The above code outputs:

```
After appending: ["Mazda", "Toyota", "Honda"]
```

### **Size of an existing array:**

We can get the size of an array by accessing the `count` attribute. `carMakes.count` is the size of `carMakes`. For example,

```swift
print("Number of elements in carMakes: \(carMakes.count)")
```

prints:

```
Number of elements in carMakes: 3
```

### **Accessing an element from a particular position:**

We can access an element of an array by it's index/position in the array. The indices start at `0`. So, the first element resides at position `0,` the second element resides at position `1`, and so on. For example, let's look at the following code:

```swift
// Accessing a particular element from the Array...
print("The first element of carMakes: \(carMakes[0])")
print("The second element of carMakes: \(carMakes[1])")
```

It will print the following output:

```
The first element of carMakes: Mazda
The second element of carMakes: Toyota
```

### **Removing an element from an existing array:**

We can remove an element from an element by calling `remove(at: index)` function. For example:

```swift
carMakes.remove(at: 1)

// Printing the current elements of the array...
print("After removing: \(carMakes)")
```

This code outputs:

```
After removing: ["Mazda", "Honda"]
```

So far, we have learned the basics about Swift arrays (declaring and initializing an array, adding and removing elements). We will explore more functionalities cumulatively further down the road.
