# 2.4. Dictionaries

When we hear the word 'dictionary,' we imagine a book of words and their corresponding meanings where we search for the words and find their meanings. Each word has a meaning in a dictionary.

In Swift, a dictionary is a similar data structure to a real-life dictionary. It is a collection of `key-value` pairs. Where each `key` is similar to a word in a dictionary book, and the corresponding `value` is similar to the meaning of the word. A dictionary in Swift has the following properties:

* Each element in a dictionary is a pair of a key and a value.
* The keys can be of any type.
* The values can be of any type.
* Once a dictionary is created,
  * The type for all keys has to be the same.
  * The type for all values has to be the same.

### Creating a dictionary:

We can **create an empty dictionary** of `String-Int` pairs by writing the following code:

```swift
var carCounts = [String: Int]()
```

Or, you can **create a dictionary with predefined key-value pairs**, like:

```swift
var carCounts = [
    "Toyota": 2,
    "Mazda": 1,
    "Honda":10
]

print(carCounts)
```

It prints:

```
["Toyota": 2, "Mazda": 1, "Honda": 10]
```

### Adding a new key-value pair and updating a value for a particular key:

For both adding a pair and updating a current value for a particular key, we use `updateValue(value, forKey:key)` function. The `updateValue()` function finds if the `key` already exists or not. If the `key` is not in the dictionary, it adds the `key` with the `value` provided. If the `key` is found, it just updates the current value with the new `value`.

For example, we can add 5 more Chevy cars in `carCounts` by writing:

```swift
carCounts.updateValue(5, forKey: "Chevy")
print(carCounts)
```

_**Alternatively, we can add 5 Chevy cars by writing:**_

```swift
carCounts["Chevy"] = 5
```

It prints:

```
["Mazda": 1, "Toyota": 2, "Chevy": 5, "Honda": 10]
```

Now, if we want to sell one Honda car, we would write:

```swift
carCounts.updateValue(9, forKey: "Honda")
print(carCounts)
```

It prints:

```
["Honda": 9, "Chevy": 5, "Mazda": 1, "Toyota": 2]
```

Dictionaries are very useful and very often used in iOS development or any kind of software development.

### Accessing a value for a key:

We can fetch how many Mazda cars we have by:

```swift
let mazdaCount = carCounts["Mazda"]
```

**A small challenge:** can you try to remove all Honda cars? (Hint: there is a `removeValue()` function).
